ok.

What I hope is made clear to the coder in this scope (and perhaps others), 
so that things are not forgetfully ambiguous from the start and leave nothing
to chance, is stuff perhaps along the lines of:

we will use R78+ fmparallel from the start, acknowledging there will be multi-instances to manage
what works for how to do the various vapoursynth header includes
how to do the tier determination (in its own module, see below)
the shape of modules with 'includes' at the top of modules perhaps sort of gated for checking
the shape of gating debug 'includes' and gating in debug-modules and gating in normal-module code and using namespaces for debug stuff
the shape and naming and gating wof and within of printing module and debug printing module
the cnr3 approach of dll and selftest(s) to help testing/debugging
all code explicitly compiled at baseline v1_tier except for that nominated for compilatioon at v2 and v3 (you have a scheme for that)
the "main" dll code should be thin-ish, probably containing the DLL and instance setup and configuration code and exit stuff 
and everything else in functional modules grouping together common purpose code, eg
- a module for arAllFramesReady containing the dispatcher etc, one for arInitial, and others for perhaps arError etc if possible
- perhaps a module for teir determination, one for common utility functions, etc, you get the drift
- "include" modules for sharing global/instance/thread definitions/data if and as required
- "include" modules we settled on eg build_config or whatever it was

and anything else we have discussed and settled. 

Does that make sense and if so can you list the things to be mentioned ?

In regard to the 7 decision points,

D-1 - Stage designation 1C. 
OK

D-2 - Register BOTH filters now, minimal signature.
Yes all up-front. 
Also consider the impact of selftest(s) which of course are not part of the vapoursynth dll.

D-3 - Pass-through placeholder semantics. 
ok, looks good to me if you recommend it.

D-4 - Frame-property writes included now. 
Yes.

D-5 - Dispatch consumption in this stage = resolve-once-and-store. At creation, the filter:
yes.
query: where/when is the detection/checking/setting of (per instance) filter parameters
and variables for each filter ... it "should" be at instance startup is my guess. Oh see D7.

D-6 - Sweep: Option A (full sweep now), with anchor relocation.
Yes option A retire/cleanup now as you recommend.

D-7 - Minimal creation signature now. (clip, backend="auto") only. 
I prefer all DLL parameters to be defined and checked and variables set
up-front now rather than retro-fitted.

Don't forget to iberally sprinkle gated debug printing at this stage
so that we can see what is being called and entered and exited (instance numbered
although I don't know if that means mutexing up-front or not, and frame numbered).
Perhaps gate with something like "DEBUG_Stage_1C" or some other scheme you consider better.

Is that OK ?

Don't do a new scope yet, I want to check we are on the same page.
